Hello, and welcome to the overview of the Backgrounder & Non-interactive microservices.
For this section, we are going to talk about the backgrounder process.
Additionally, we are going to look at an example workflow for Backgrounder.  We will also look at how extracts work in the system,
and discuss non-interactive micro-services.
The backgrounder process handles scheduled jobs.
The most common one that we think about is extract refreshes, but it’s actually involved in any process that users want to run
on a scheduled interval, or that is required to keep the management of tableau server running smoothly.
This includes extract refreshes, and also active directory group sync, alerts, subscriptions, and file store jobs.
Now, extracts are the one most people think of when they hear backgrounder, so we can look at that first.
Every extract that is refreshed on a schedule or manually,
a job will be created in the repository’s background jobs table.
How this works is that every 10 seconds the backgrounder will check the table in the repository for the next
job that it needs to process.  When it hits a refresh task, an available backgrounder will take the task,
update the repository (making the status of the job in-progress),
whitelist any datasources involved, and use the platform code to render the view.
From there, Backgrounder parses the connection information in the workbook
or published datasource, and validates the connection to the current extract.
Now, to refresh an extract, first we create a new file for the new data, to prevent compromising an existing user session
or having potential errors compromise the existing extract file.
The new file is appended to the existing file if it is an incremental refresh,
or will eventually replace the existing file entirely if it is a full refresh.
The file needs to be created with the same structure as the existing file so the data will line up with the old version.
To get this info, we query the metadata of the existing extract - including columns, calculations,
data types, and other pertinent information.  To do this, backgrounder will contact the Data Engine.
Now that we know the details of how the data is structured, we can go out and get the new data.
Backgrounder will spin up a new Protocol Server process (if needed)
to connect to the external database, and send the required queries on to the external source.
As it retrieves the data, it will spin up a child data engine process,
to create and insert the data into a new temporary extract file.
Once the data is retrieved and written to the extract, the new extract is finalized, packaged, uploaded to its final location on the disk,
and the backgrounder updates the extract’s GUID in the postgreSQL repository.
It then marks the original refresh job as complete.
Another note here is that we don't always use a protocol server process to connect to data
sources, in which case the Backgrounder will connect to the data source directly.
Now, any active user sessions will continue using the old GUID and the original extract, and new sessions will go to the new GUID.
Once all user sessions for the old GUID expire, old extracts will be flagged for reaping.
In multi-node environments the new extract will also get a filestore sync job, to be available for all workers that need it.
Pretty much every backgrounder process will follow this workflow:
it will query postgres repository to determine a job,
assign the job,
contact or spawn child processes, and update postgres repository when complete.
Now here's an example:  if a subscription is called for, Backgrounder will check the repository,
render the viz, connect up to the configured SMTP server to email the recipients of the subscription,
and then update the jobs table to mark the job as complete.
For more details, check out the Life of a request pages on my Tableau.  (these will be linked in-training as well).
Now let’s take a look at the Non-Interactive Microservices.
These are services that respond to scheduled background requests.  They cannot be manually configured, but are bundled together.
These background requests can be longer-running and potentially require heavy system resource use.
One instance of the Non-Interactive Microservice Container is added to every node that has Backgrounder installed.
These Microservices include: Relationship Ingestor Microservice,
External Content Provider Microservice, Flow Provider Microservice, and the Content Provider Microservice.
Finally, let’s take a look at what the TSM Web UI and TSM CLI look like
for the non-interactive microservices.
For the Web UI, If all microservices on a node are up, they show with a green check,
if one or more is in an error state (but not all) it will show as degraded,
and if all microservices are stopped, it will show an error state.
If more granularity is needed, the TSM CLI will show individual statuses for each microservice.
So, if we want to know one specific status of a microservice, we can look at the command line interface for more information.
This has been an overview of Backgrounder and Interactive Microservices,
Thank you very much!